[charts] Add standalone Pyramid chart page to improve SEO (#18527)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/charts/pyramid-demo/pyramid.md

---
title: Charts - Pyramid demonstration
productId: x-charts
components: FunnelChart, FunnelPlot
---

# Charts - Pyramid demonstration

<p class="description">This page demonstrates the pyramid chart.</p>

## Pyramid Chart

The pyramid chart is a variation of the funnel chart.

To create a pyramid chart, set the `curve` property to `pyramid` in the series.

> {{"demo": "Pyramid.js"}}

Reviewer: I would make this example a pyramid by using a different dataset with data from `small > big`

Author: First and third (playground) examples are now pyramids. 

I tried reversing the order of the series in `populationByEducationLevel.ts` file, but couldn't. Can you take a look? Currently, it just shows the data without value formatter or labels.

> 

Reviewer: We can also have a second example explaining data directionality, pyramid/upside-down-pyramid.

---
title: Charts - Pyramid demonstration
productId: x-charts
components: FunnelChart, FunnelPlot
---

> # Charts - Pyramid demonstration

Reviewer 2: Should we just call it Pyramid chart? I had the impression we were going to remove demo pages from our docs and try to document everything in a single page. 

Since the pyramid chart is a different chart, it makes sense to have it as a separate page, but I'd treat it just like a normal chart. What do you think?

---
title: React Pyramid chart
productId: x-charts
components: FunnelChart, FunnelPlot
---

# Charts - Pyramid [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')🧪

<p class="description">The pyramid chart is a variation of the funnel chart.</p>

:::info
This feature is in preview. It is ready for production use, but its API, visuals and behavior may change in future minor or patch releases.
:::

## Pyramid Chart

To create a pyramid chart, set the `curve` property to `pyramid` in the series.

{{"demo": "Pyramid.js"}}

## Direction

The pyramid automatically changes its direction based on the provided data. If the values are sorted in ascending order, the pyramid will be inverted.
If the values are sorted in descending order, the pyramid will be upright.

In order to manually control the direction of the pyramid, the `funnelDirection` property can be set to either `increasing` or `decreasing`.

> This is useful when the data is not sorted, or when you want to enforce a specific direction regardless of the data order, like in the below example where an upright pyramid is required to show income levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This is useful when the data is not sorted, or when you want to enforce a specific direction regardless of the data order.

In the example below, an upright pyramid is used to showcase income levels.
For this use-case the `increasing` pyramid is always correct, regardless of the data.
```
